Change log for the Analytics Rules Plugin [PAB-4848] (#3405)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/analytics/apama-in-c8y-20250603-New-Analytics-rules-plugin-is-available-as-public-preview.md

---

> date: 09-07-2025

Reviewer: do not set date for change log in this repository

It will be automatically updated when the corresponding build version is deployed to eu-latest

Author: updated.

title: New Analytics rules plugin is available as Public
  Preview
change_type:
  - value: change-pXAlHAWka
    label: Preview
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y
ticket: PAB-4742
version: 26.106.0
---

{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}
This feature is in Public Preview, that is, it is not enabled by default and may be subject to change in the future.
{{< /c8y-admon-preview >}}

> The Analytics rules plugin, embedded in the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform, extends Analytics Builder capabilities within Streaming Analytics by enabling users to create and manage analytics rule instances directly from device and group contexts within applications such as Device Management and Cockpit. This new feature is currently in Public Preview. You can activate it in the platform UI via the **Manage preview features** option in the user menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Analytics rules plugin extends Analytics Builder capabilities within Streaming Analytics by enabling users to create and manage analytics rule instances directly from device and group contexts within applications such as Device Management and Cockpit. You can activate the feature using the **Manage preview features** option in the user menu.
```
